Protecting data is a fundamental
feature of security controls.
When it comes to keeping information
safe and secure, hashing and encryption
are powerful, yet limited tools.
Managing who or
what has access to information is
also key to safeguarding information.
The next series of controls that we'll
be exploring are access controls,
the security controls that
manage access, authorization, and
accountability of information.
When done well, access controls
maintain data confidentiality,
integrity, and availability.
They also get users
the information they need quickly.
These systems are commonly broken down
into three separate, yet related functions
known as the authentication,
authorization, and accounting framework.
Each control has its own protocol and
systems that make them work.
In this video, let's get comfortable with
the basics of the first one on the list,
authentication.
Authentication systems are access
controls that serve a very basic purpose.
They ask anything attempting
to access information
this simple question: who are you?
Organizations go about collecting
answers to these questions differently,
depending on the objectives
of their security policy.
Some are more thorough than others,
but in general,
responses to this question can be based
on three factors of authentication.
The first is knowledge. Authentication by
knowledge refers to something the user
knows, like a password or
the answer to a security question
they provided previously.
Another factor is ownership,
referring to something the user possesses.
A commonly used type of authentication
by ownership is a one-time passcode, or OTP.
You've probably experienced
these at one time or another.
They're a random number
sequence that an application or website
will send you via text or
email and ask you to provide.
Last is characteristic. Authentication
by this factor is something the user is.
Biometrics, like fingerprint scans on your
smartphone, are example of this type of
authentication.
While not used everywhere, this form of
authentication is becoming more common
because it's much tougher for
criminals to impersonate someone
if they have to mimic a fingerprint or
facial scan as opposed to a password.
The information provided during
authentication needs to match
the information on file for
these access controls to work.
When the credentials don't match,
authentication fails and access is denied.
When they match, access is granted.
Incorrectly denying access
can be frustrating to anyone.
To make access systems more convenient,
many organizations these
days rely on single sign-on.
Single sign-on, or
SSO, is a technology that combines
several different logins into one.
Can you imagine having to reintroduce
yourself every time you meet up with
a friend?
That's exactly the sort
of problem SSO solves.
Instead of requiring users to authenticate
over and over again, SSO establishes
their identity once, allowing them to
gain access to company resources faster.
While SSO systems are helpful when it
comes to speeding up the authentication process,
they present a significant
vulnerability when used alone.
Denying access to authorized
users can be frustrating,
but you know what's even worse? Incorrectly
granting access to the wrong user.
SSO technology is great, but not if
it relies on just a single factor of
authentication. Adding more authentication
factors strengthen these systems.
Multi-factor authentication, or
MFA, is a security measure, which requires
a user to verify their identity in two or
more ways to access a system or network.
MFA combines two or more independent
credentials, like knowledge and
ownership, to prove that someone
is who they claim to be.
SSO and MFA are often used in
conjunction with one another
to layer the defense capabilities
of authentication systems.
When both are used, organizations
can ensure convenient access
that is also secure.
Now that we covered authentication,
we're ready to explore the second
part of the framework.
Next, we'll learn about authorization!